---
layout: post
title: My most used CLI tool
summary: Excluding zsh, tmux, vim, and coreutils
---
# Developer Productivity
I spend a shameless amount of my free time customizing my development workflow. It sure takes a lot of time to discover new utilities, configure them, and integrate them. There are different parts to my workflow as well - writing code, debugging code, documenting code, checking references, finding things, navigating the filesystem, managing systems. I'll eventually write about all of them, but I'd like to start with navigation.

# Navigation
Knowing how to work your way around the filesystem efficiently is a worthwile investment. When you're in a terminal, you're either going to be writing something or running something, and quickly getting to the right place to do those things saves a tremendous amount of time over time. You should get used to using the basic `cd` targets first: `cd -` to go back to the previous directory, `cd ~` to go to your home directory, `cd ..` to go up a directory. Then you should know about, _and probably not use_, `popd` and `pushd` to get a perspective on how your navigation can be treated like a stack.

# fasd
Cool. So you probably think that it's pretty easy and fast (based on typing effort) to use those short `cd` targets to get to places (in conjunction with file autocompletion), and that you're happy. I bet you'd be even happier if you knew how to use [fasd](https://github.com/clvv/fasd). I use this tool to jump around the filesystem like a hyperactive rabbit.

```
Fasd offers quick access to files and directories for POSIX shells.
Fasd keeps track of files and directories you have accessed.
Fasd ranks files and directories by "frecency," that is, by both "frequency" and "recency."
```

I normally use it to edit files with `vim` and to jump around. An example:

```
# to go to my Dropbox
$ z dro

# to edit a file in vim with `alias v='fasd -e vim'`
$ vim supercalifragilisticexpialidocious.rb
  vs.
$ v docious.rb

```

Of course, what you think `fasd` will give you can sometimes be wrong, and your laziness (or lack of creativity in creating a string that is 'unique enough') might bite you. You'll get better at knowing when you use this tool more. I also highly recommend adding "your own aliases to fully utilize the power of `fasd`".

It's funny to see the confused looks on my coworkers' faces when they pair program with me because I will almost always type an incomplete file name when using `fasd`.
