---
layout: post
title: knife tag caveat
summary: Make sure your Chef tag sticks
---
## `chef-client`
During a typical `chef-client` [run](https://docs.chef.io/chef_client.html#the-chef-client-title-run), the node object for a host is pulled down from the Chef server, possibly modified during the run, and uploaded back to the Chef server. This is all well and dandy until you want to boss your host around while it's in the middle of a run.


## `knife tag`
Let's say I have some code in my cookbook that gets triggered conditionally based off of a tag. I'm going to tag a host such that that code branch should get executed on that host the next time `chef-client` runs on it - this works. The problem is getting your tag to stick properly. `knife tag` [operates](https://docs.chef.io/knife_tag.html) by updating the node object of a host on the Chef server, so, if you tag a host while it's in the middle of a `chef-client` run, the tag won't stick because it'll be overwritten by the node object that's uploaded at the end of the run, and that node object doesn't have the tag. This means that you'll have to do extra checking (`ps aux | grep "chef-client worker"`) before you tag a host.

## Lessons learned
A `chef-client` run is atomic in terms of modifying the state of a host and its node object.

`knife tag` should be used ephemerally and only for querying hosts. Your cookbook will get very messy if you start including conditionals based off of tags.

Don't have your hosts auto-converge so that you can get a chance to tag them. Your CD pipeline should deploy your cookbook and run `chef-client` on your hosts for you.

What would be cool is if `chef-client` were automatically triggered again on a host whose node object was modified on the Chef server during the middle of a run. This would account for role changes too.
