---
layout: post
title: Chef UI eccentricities
summary: Quirks I've found within Chef's UI
---

Chef's UI is straightforward to look at. It displays all of the right information concisely. The poor user experience arises when you actually interact with it.

I've run into an incident when managing Jenkins where a majority of a cluster's slaves were unusable due to disk space issues. To remediate the issue, I moved over slaves from another cluster which involved changing their environments. I hopped onto the Chef UI with my list of hosts to transfer. One by one, I searched for them, clicked on their entry, selected the other cluster's environment, and hit save. At the end of my speed clicking session, I found that only the first host in the list had its environment changed. My feathers were rustled. I relied on my conditioning of typical web application user experience idioms (and my assumptions of common web dev practices) and trusted that seeing the status "Changes were saved!" after hitting the save button meant that I could move onto doing the next thing I wanted to do inside of the UI without consequence. I found that this is not the case with Chef UI. I tried processing my list of hosts again, this time refreshing between each save, and was successful in reaching my intended goal.

This is a major issue of functional correctness but I want to note a few "superficial" issues as well:

* After hitting save, the previously current information becomes outdated because it isn't updated in the UI.
* There's a race condition on page-load. Immediately after the UI loads, if you try to search for a host, you'll notice that your query returns a result in the main table but that it gets replaced with what seems like all of the hosts in the org.
* When reassigning roles for a host, you'll find that the modal UI has a search box for recipes but not roles.

For now, I'm going to stick with `knife` for node management.
